Extract: 
	Our group exploreded Kaggle and discovered a video game sales file. We took interest 
in it and then we found a video games ratings file. We realized that the two could be joined together
on the column: name. Both files were CSV files that could easily be imported into a pandas 
dataframe. The video games sales file had over 16,000 rows of data and columns which included 
name, platform, year of release, genre, and the sales in North America, Europe, Japan, other regions 
and global sales. The video games ratings file had nearly 5000 rows of data and columns which 
included title(name), year of release, publisher, genre, platform, meta critic score, average rating, 
and number of players. 

Transform: 
	We began by importing our CSVs as data frames using the python library pandas. After 
importing the video game sales file into a pandas dataframe, we commenced with transforming and 
cleaning the data. The data frames were very clean to begin. Unnecessary columns were first 
dropped from the ratings dataframe and the remaining columns were renamed. The sales data frame 
required renaming the columns to include only lowercase name letters for the purposes of 
importing it into SQL, and dropping the “genre” and “rank” columns. The sales data contained a 
“Year” column full of integer values that was imported as an incorrect data type because it also 
included NaN values. NaN values were then dropped from both data frames and the data types for 
any incorrect columns were redeclared to their correct typing leaving only clean data.

Load: 
	We chose to load our cleaned data into a SQL database primarily because of its 
relational nature. Our data was originally taken from CSVs and nicely organized in tables so SQL 
was a logical choice. Our sales and ratings data were loaded into two separate tables, both of which 
contained a column with values denoting the title of a video game. An inner join was performed on 
this common column combining the sales and ratings data for each title within the database.
